[miniflare] fix: make the magic proxy able to proxy objects containing functions (#5670)
cloudflare/workers-sdk: .changeset/wet-taxis-share.md

---
"miniflare": patch
---

> fix: make the magic proxy able to proxy objects containing functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fix: allow the magic proxy to proxy objects containing functions

This was previously prevented but this change removes that restriction.
```

> fix: make the magic proxy able to serialize objects containing functions

Reviewer: Can you make clear that this fix doesn't allow those functions to be callable

Reviewer 2: Is that true? JS RPC does allow methods and callback to be called I believe.

Reviewer: This isn't JS RPC – it's the miniflare magic proxy

Reviewer 2: But isn't it using JS RPC under the hood? Perhaps I am misunderstanding.

Author: @petebacondarwin no this is unrelated to JS RPC 🙂, it is using the magic proxy and saving such object on the heap (in workerd) so that they can be referenced later.

JS RPC is implemented in the same sort of way: https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/blob/66bdad08834b403100d1e4d6cd507978cc50eaba/packages/miniflare/src/workers/core/proxy.worker.ts#L55-L57
but one is not necessary related to the other

Author: PS: I've updated the changeset as I can see that `serialize` here is not really the right word and can lead to confusion 🙂 
(my changes are not actually serializing such objects but allowing us to handle them)

Reviewer: Ah yeah sorry I didn't see any implementation changes so assumed you were simply allowing the object to be _serialised_ whereas before it was prevented from _proxying_.

Am I right to now think that proxying objects with functions _always_ worked? If so, do we know why we explicitly prevented it?

Author: > Am I right to now think that proxying objects with functions always worked?

No, they never worked, only the rpc stubs ones but that's because we're specifically handling them ad-hoc

>  If so, do we know why we explicitly prevented it?

The thing is that with my changes we check if an object contains functions and if so we mark as a non-plain object.
Basically my changes make the `!isPlainObject(object)` trigger here:
https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/blob/c0b057b9d196dc46f54530f91e8c87dee88d6cfa/packages/miniflare/src/workers/core/proxy.worker.ts#L88-L93
making it so that the object doesn't get sent to devalue which would otherwise complain when trying to serialize it (saying that it doesn't know how to serialize functions).
